In this lecture, we are going to explore a useful feature for helping site builders.
Blocks can have variations.
Let me show you an example.
Currently, I'm viewing the Gutenberg editor.
If I were to add a new block, there's a category called Embed.
You may scroll down the list of blocks to find this category.
WordPress supports various platforms for embedding content into the page.
At first glance, these may seem like different blocks.
However, these blocks are variations of the embed block.
It's the same block, but with different names and icons.
The behavior of the block is still the same.
Variations were introduced to showcase the different appearances a block can have.
Let's try adding a variation for our block.
To get started, check out the resource section of this lecture for a link to a gist.
For this demonstration, I will be providing different icons one icon for the original version of the
block.
Another icon for the variation.
The variation will be called accented.
Let's copy this code to our clipboard.
Next.
Head on over to your editor inside the source directory.
Create a file called Icons JS.
Paste the code into this file.
Next update the block file.
The icon's property can be removed from the file.
We can start importing the icons into our block in your editor.
Open the index JS file.
At the top of the file.
Import the icons file.
Next, add the icon option to the object.
Set the icon to the icons dot default property.
After adding the icon, we can begin adding the variation.
Variations can be defined by adding the variations array to the configuration object.
Inside this array, we can add objects for each variation of our block.
For this example, let's add one object.
Inside this object, we must provide a name for our variation.
The name must be unique.
It cannot conflict with other block names.
I prefer to use the original name with an additional word attached to it.
For example, let's set the name to the following.
UE plus slash alert box accented.
The variation is called accented.
You'll see why in a moment.
Next, let's add a property called title.
This property will have the following value alert box accented.
The title will be presented on the front end to the user.
Afterward lets set the icon property to the icons dot x sensitive property.
The properties for the variation are exactly the same as the properties for a block file.
The main difference is that we do not need to include the edit or save functions.
The variation will inherit the functions from the parent configuration.
The question is how can we make our variation different?
It's common practice to modify the default values of the attributes.
Let's add an object called attributes.
Next change the text colour attribute to the following colour hash 111827.
Lastly, let's change the name of the class by setting the class name to is style accented?
Technically the class name attribute is not a valid attribute on our block.
However, WordPress treats this value as an attribute.
We can modify it through the attributes object.
This is where the true power of variations comes in.
If a variation is added to the page, WordPress will allow us to insert a class for completely changing
the appearance of the block.
It's common practice to use the name is style, followed by the name of the variation.
I've already prepared styles for this class.
You can refer to the style file for the styles.
Let's try testing our code in the browser.
Refresh the page.
Next.
Try searching for the alert box block.
As you can see, the results will display two blocks.
They are the same block, but with different classes.
We can click on the alert box accented block to add it to the page.
The block has an entirely different appearance than before.
However, it's still the same block.
If you look at the sidebar, WordPress does not use the modified name.
According to WordPress, we're working with the alert box block.
Variations can be a great way to change the initial appearance of a block.
Providing different block presentations can make it easier for designers to work with your blocks.
In the next lecture, let's add an option for switching between variations.